“Hawkeye” actor Jeremy Renner is recovering from surgery after suffering “blunt chest trauma and orthopedic injuries” in a New Year’s Day snow plowing accident in Nevada, a spokesperson for the actor said. As of Monday evening, Renner was in the intensive care unit in “critical but stable condition,” the spokesperson said. The 51-year-old actor has so far undergone two surgeries to address injuries he sustained in the accident, a source close to the actor previously told CNN. Renner was hospitalized on Sunday after a “weather related accident” while plowing snow, his representative Sam Mast confirmed to CNN earlier on Monday. The Washoe County Sheriff’s Office said its deputies responded to a “traumatic injury” involving Renner in the area of Mount Rose Highway in Reno. Deputies found Renner injured and coordinated his transport to an area hospital, the Sheriff’s Office said in a news release, adding that the actor was the only person involved in the accident. The Sheriff’s Office did not provide details on how the snow plow accident happened but said its Major Accident Investigation Team is looking into the circumstances of the incident. At the time of the accident, parts of western Nevada were covered with snow. The Reno area received around 6-12 inches of snow at elevations below 5,000 feet between New Year’s Eve and New Year’s Day, and up to 18 inches at higher elevations, according to the National Weather Service in Reno. Renner has shared multiple videos and photos on his verified social media accounts showing him in snowy conditions, including one Instagram video posted two weeks ago in which the actor appears to be driving a snowplow. Renner’s family released a statement Monday evening thanking hospital staff and first responders as the actor remained hospitalized. “Jeremy’s family would like to express their gratitude to the incredible doctors and nurses looking after him, Truckee Meadows Fire and Rescue, Washoe County Sheriff, Reno City Mayor Hillary Schieve and the Carano and Murdock families,” a statement from his spokesperson read. “They are also tremendously overwhelmed and appreciative of the outpouring of love and support from his fans.” Renner stars in the Paramount+ series “Mayor of Kingstown” and is best known for his role as Hawkeye in several Marvel Cinematic Universe films. CNN’s Tina Burnside, Christine Sever and Lisa Respers France contributed to this report.