Grammy-winning rapper Young Thug and a racketeering co-defendant conducted a hand-to-hand drug transaction during a court hearing, prosecutors said in a motion filed in Atlanta. Fulton County prosecutors say the alleged exchange was captured on courtroom surveillance video Wednesday. The rapper, whose real name is Jeffery Lamar Williams, and Kahlieff Adams are charged with conspiracy to violate the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act and participation in criminal street gang activity, among other charges. According to the motion seeking clarification of the record, Adams “stood up from his chair (…) and walked unattended” to Young Thug and gave him Percocet. The motion said Young Thug tried to conceal his hand under the table. Sheriff’s deputies took the painkiller and searched Adams, who resisted. He was taken to Grady Memorial Hospital after “he appeared to ingest other items of contraband that he held on his person, in an effort to conceal the extent of his crimes within the courtroom.” During the search of Adams, the deputies found Percocet, marijuana, tobacco, and other contraband, “wrapped in plastic and food seasonings to mask the odor of the marijuana,” the motion said. Percocet is the brand name of a drug that mixes oxycodone, which is an opioid, and acetaminophen, which is the generic name for drugs such as Tylenol. Keith Adams, one of Young Thug’s attorneys, told CNN affiliate WSB-TV, “His side is the truth. The reality is Mr. Williams had nothing to do with what went on in the courtroom on yesterday.” Adams also told WSB Young Thug did not know it was Percocet being handed to him. Teombre Calland, an attorney representing Adams, released a statement via text message to WSB-TV saying: “On behalf of Mr. Adams, these allegations are simply that: mere statements made by the state in an effort to thwart the lengthiness of the jury selection process.” CNN has reached out to Brian Steel, another Young Thug attorney, and Calland. Young Thug won a Grammy Award in 2019 for his work with Childish Gambino and Ludwig Göransson on the hit song “This is America.” The rapper was initially indicted in May on charges of conspiracy to violate the RICO Act and participation in criminal street gang activity. A re-indictment filed on August 5 in Fulton County Superior Court accuses him of nine new charges, including participating in criminal street gang activity and violating the Georgia Controlled Substances Act. He also was indicted on other charges of possession of a firearm during the commission of a felony and possession of a machine gun. Jury selection is ongoing.