Editor’s Note: Sign up for CNN’s Royal News, a weekly dispatch bringing you the inside track on the royal family, what they are up to in public and what’s happening behind palace walls. Prince Harry is continuing to speak out regarding the rift in the British royal family. He sat down with Anderson Cooper for a “60 Minutes” interview, described by CBS as Prince Harry’s “first U.S. television interview to discuss his upcoming memoir ‘Spare’ and recount his childhood, the loss of his mother and life as the Duke of Sussex living in the UK and now in America.” In a clip released Monday, Cooper asked Prince Harry about the criticism aimed at him and his wife Meghan, the Duchess of Sussex, regarding their decision to step back from their royal duties, but air their grievances about what led to the move publicly. The second son of King Charles reiterated that he tried to address the matter privately. “And every singly time I tried to do it privately there have been briefings and leakings and planting of stories against me and my wife,” he said. “You know, the family motto is ‘Never complain, never explain.’ It’s just a motto.” The couple have made headlines most recently for their Netflix docuseries “Harry & Meghan,” which debuted last month. In it, the couple shared stories of both their courtship and their views on how they have been treated by the media and their respective families. Prince Harry is also expected to go into greater detail about his life in and out of the Royal Family in an upcoming television interview with British network ITV, in which he has said, “I want a family, not an institution.” In a preview clip of the interview released Monday, the Duke of Sussex said, “They’ve shown absolutely no willingness to reconcile,” presumably referring to the Royal Family. “I would like to get my father back. I would like to have my brother back,” he told journalist Tom Bradby in the clip of the interview, which is due to air on ITV1 on Sunday, January 8. The “60 Minutes” interview with Prince Harry is also set to air on Sunday on CBS. CNN’s Max Foster and Allegra Goodwin contributed to this report