Six people are dead and another was wounded Friday in a series of shootings in Tate County, Mississippi after a man opened fire on his ex-wife and potentially other family members, Tate County Sheriff Brad Lance told CNN. The suspect, Richard Dale Crum, 52, was arrested after the alleged rampage and is facing charges of first-degree murder in connection with the case, the sheriff’s office said. Additional charges are expected to be filed, the department said. Authorities got the first 911 call around 11 a.m. ET after the suspect pulled into the parking lot of a store in Arkabutla, a small rural town in northern Mississippi, and fired into the car next to him where he fatally shot the driver, Lance said. Another person in the vehicle was not injured. Lance said the suspected gunman went into the store then took off, driving to his ex-wife’s home. Lance said the suspect shot and killed his ex-wife before striking her fiancé, who was also in the residence. Deputies caught up to the suspect after finding a vehicle matching its description in front of a residence that authorities determined belonged to him, Lance said. On a small road behind the suspect’s home, authorities found two men who had been shot and killed. One was found on the road and the other was in a vehicle, Lance said. Another two victims were found shot and killed in a house neighboring the suspect’s home, Lance said. According to Lance, deputies believe the suspect might be related to the victims, a man and woman. Lance said another person was injured in the shootings. That person was treated by emergency crews and not taken to a hospital for additional treatment, Lance said. Deputies took the suspect into custody as he was trying to leave the scene near his house, Lance said. Lance said deputies found several handguns and a shotgun in the suspect’s car. The suspect is being held at the Tate County jail, according to Lance. The victims have not been identified. Lance said a motive is unclear at this time. CNN has not been able to determine if Crum has obtained an attorney. The Mississippi Bureau of Investigation is working with local law enforcement in the investigation, Bailey Martin, a spokesperson for the Mississippi Bureau of Investigation told CNN. Gov. Tate Reeves said he’d been briefed on the shootings, explaining in a tweet that the suspect is believed to have acted alone. “I will ensure that the full resources of the state are available to law enforcement as we continue to investigate the situation,” Reeves said. Tate County is in northwest Mississippi, about 30 minutes south of Memphis, Tennessee. Correction: A previous version of this story mistakenly transposed a spokesperson's name for the Mississippi Bureau of Investigation. The person's name is Bailey Martin. CNN’s Sara Smart contributed to this story.