Another member of the world’s biggest boy band is putting his music career on hold to join the South Korean military – but not before he releases a new solo track. BTS singer and rapper J-Hope is beginning the process of enlisting for mandatory military service, his label announced Sunday, meaning he’ll become the second member of the K-pop sensations to enroll in the army. “We would like to inform our fans that j-hope has initiated the military enlistment process by applying for the termination of his enlistment postponement,” Big Hit Music said in the statement, adding it asked fans for their “continued love and support for j-hope until he completes his military service and safely returns.” Almost all able-bodied men in South Korea are required to serve in the army for 18 months by the time they are age 28 – but in 2020, the country’s parliament passed a bill allowing pop stars to defer their service until age 30. The announcement for J-Hope, 29, comes just months after 30-year-old singer Jin, the oldest BTS member, began his military service in December. Jin’s arrival at the army base was met with much fanfare, including media and fans gathering outside despite his previous pleas for them to stay away. Big Hit has said that all seven BTS members would serve their mandatory military service. On Monday, the label released a separate statement announcing that J-Hope would release a new solo single called “on the street” on March 3. Fans have long worried that the band’s success could be derailed by military service. BTS have become worldwide superstars since debuting in 2013, earning No. 1 singles in more than 100 countries, more than 48 million followers on Twitter and their first Grammy nomination in 2020. They have also become an important part of the South Korean economy – a 2019 study showed BTS was responsible for 0.3% of the country’s gross domestic product with $4.9 billion in revenue. BTS announced in 2022 it would take a break for members to pursue solo projects, though they are expected to reconvene as a group around 2025, according to Big Hit Music.