Will a fourth adoption be the charm for this seemingly unadoptable pup? Ralphie, a New York shelter’s adorable “jerk” dog, has been returned to the shelter again after his most recent (and unsuccessful) adoption. “Ralphie proved to be more than she could handle,” the shelter explained in an update posted to Facebook on Tuesday after the woman who adopted the French bulldog brought him back. News of the canine menace went viral in late January after the Niagara SPCA posted an eye-catching ad for potential adopters. Shelter employees described Ralphie as “a terror in a somewhat small package.” “Everything belongs to him. If you dare test his ability to possess THE things, wrath will ensue,” they wrote at the time. “If you show a moment of weakness, prepare to be exploited.” This is Ralphie’s third unsuccessful adoption, according to the shelter. The pup’s first family rehomed him after training was unsuccessful. His second family surrendered him to the shelter after he “annoyed” their older dog. “What they actually meant was: Ralphie is a fire-breathing demon and will eat our dog, but hey, he’s only 26lbs,” reads a Facebook post from the Niagara SPCA. The ornery pup is now enrolled in an intensive six-week boarding and training program that will start on February 20, according to the Tuesday Facebook post. The shelter said that they would start vetting prospective adopters immediately and that the ideal adopter would work with the trainer while Ralphie’s at the residential training program. The shelter noted that those who believe “that all Ralphie needs is love” should not apply to adopt the fearsome pup. “He will totally exploit that,” they wrote. Neither should families with children or other pets, as he has a history of biting. Dog lovers who aren’t intimidated by Ralphie’s formidable reputation can apply to adopt him with a letter of interest and “dog experience ‘resume,’” according to the Facebook post. The shelter is also raising money to cover the $6,000 tuition for the training program. “No one likes that it didn’t work out for Ralphie, but he will receive the training he needs,” shelter employees added in the post.