The family of actor Tom Sizemore is currently “deciding end of life matters” following an update from doctors, according to a statement CNN received Monday evening from Sizemore’s manager Charles Lago. “Today, doctors informed his family that there is no further hope and have recommended end of life decision. The family is now deciding end of life matters and a further statement will be issued on Wednesday,” the statement said. “We are asking for privacy for his family during this difficult time and they wish to thank everyone for the hundreds of messages of support, and prayers that have been received. This has been a difficult time for them.” Earlier this month, Sizemore, 61, was hospitalized in intensive care after suffering a brain aneurysm.  “Since that day, Tom has remained in critical condition, in a coma and in intensive care,” the statement from Lago noted. The Detroit-born Sizemore had an early, small role in the Oliver Stone 1989 film “Born on the Fourth of July,” and had his break in television playing Sgt. Vinnie Ventresca around the same time, in the ABC series “China Beach.” He appeared in a number of hit crime and war movies in the 90s and 2000s, including “Heat,” “Natural Born Killers,” “Pearl Harbor” and “Black Hawk Down.” He is perhaps best known for playing Sgt. Mike Horvath in the World War II movie “Saving Private Ryan.” Other notable roles for Sizemore came in the titles “The Relic,” “True Romance” and “Bringing Out the Dead,” the latter costarring Nicolas Cage and directed by Martin Scorsese. The actor nabbed a Golden Globe nomination in 2000 for best performance by an actor in a miniseries or motion picture made for television for his role in “Witness Protection.” More recently, he appeared in episodes of the hit series “Twin Peaks” and “Cobra Kai.” Sizemore has long struggled with drug addiction, and had a string of legal issues over the course of his career. He was convicted in 2003 on domestic violence charges related to his relationship with Heidi Fleiss. He told CNN’s Larry King in a 2010 interview he had been addicted to cocaine, heroin and meth, and he participated in the 2010 season of the reality show “Celebrity Rehab with Dr. Drew.” CNN’s Hannah Sarisohn, Kevin Flower and Eric Levenson contributed to this report.